Atman Fozdar						   				2/13/2016 
SaTC - Study on EnOcean sensors

STM 332U EnOcean Temperature sensor
Scenario 1 : When Environment temperature is suddenly increasing and the change is more than 1 oC/second 
it would send a telegram signal to receiver rather immediately (within 5 seconds). 
Keeping the temperature sensor in the refrigerator won’t work because it cannot transmit any signal through fridge door. 
Since it works on ultra-low power transmission technology, it works best if sensors are in open environment, away from metal if possible.


Scenario 2: When environment temperature is gradually increasing, change in temp is less than 1 oC/second 
it would send a telegram ‘in’ a minute. Temp sensor would woke up every minute, detect its environment temperature 
and if the change in temp is significant for it to able to detect, only then it would update the receiver.


Scenario 3 : When environment temperature is suddenly or gradually decreasing it would send a telegram ‘in’
a minute only if change in temp is more than 0.5 oC. It’s been configured this way to save energy by limiting number of telegrams transmitted in a given period of time. Configuration can be changed with USB 300 daughter card and Dolphin studio.

STM 320U Door/Window contact sensor
If contact sensor is sufficiently charged by solar energy then it would report the change 
(whether door or window is open/close) immediately. On board battery doesn’t seem to work well.


PTM 210U Wireless switch
This switch works on mechanical actuators placed inside which generates comparatively more power 
than ones generated by solar energy so it has sufficient energy to power itself and it only goes to 
wake state when switch is pressed. Thereby saving energy. Hence ‘pressed/released’ event is reported immediately.

Conclusion : Sensors based on mechanical actuators energy harvesting technology works better and more 
accurately because generation of more electrical energy compared to solar cells. Hence in future, all the
analogue sensors can be based on mechanical actuators like water, gas flow sensors etc.
